
> The content of this page may be out of date. Please refer to [our google docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YI1S66dQcrgCK0q7J5JHC3r3UTjQYurSO-dvBuxeMnQ) to get the latest version.

## OI Wiki Next Generation

### Implement Online Markdown Editor

Currently, to contribute to OI-Wiki, one will have to clone the whole repo, install dependencies, and manually configure the develop environment, which is pretty hard for new contributors. Since we have adopted quite a lot of markdown extensions, such as mathjax, it is impossible to edit markdown files in GitHub’s online editor.

In this role, you will implement a two-column online markdown editor using react, typescript and remark ecosystem.

### Performance Optimization

In this role, you will optimize the build performance and runtime performance for the new frontend of OI Wiki. This includes working with upstreams like gatsby and material-ui.

### Implement Live Debug

In this role, you will add a debug button for the code blocks and allow integration with online judging systems (such as codeforces) for live debugging. Specifically, the live debug functionality is expected to be similar to the “Custom Test” commonly seen in online judging systems.

## OI Wiki

### Example Garden

We’re looking for a student who is interested in implementing the latest advanced algorithms and data structures.

In this role, you will collaborate with the OI Wiki Example Garden team to implement various advanced algorithms and data structures and to improve documentation for the OI Wiki user community. Newly implemented models will be showcased on the OI Wiki Example Garden GitHub repository.

- Create code examples and tutorials (e.g., Colab notebooks).
- Contribute to the development of OI Wiki Example Garden documentation and other related materials.
- Support GitHub issues and answer StackOverflow questions regarding OI Wiki.

### Continuous Integration for Example

In this role, you will collaborate with the OI Wiki Example Garden team to build a Continuous Integration System for examples of various advanced algorithms and data structures.

## Markdown Infrastructure

### Upgrade Remark Systems

Currently, our markdown infrastructures are built upon remark@12.0.0. However, we’d like to improve our performance by upgrading to remark@13 and adopt micromark.

- Upgrade the implementation of remark-details, remark-math-space, remark-clang-format, and rehype-details.
- Contribute to the development of the documentations and other related materials
- Support GitHub issues and answer StackOverflow questions

### Enhance Export Tools

Last summer we managed to release our markdown2pdf export tools via latex generation, and this summer we’d like to make a step further to support .epub/.azw3 format as well (for devices with slow browsers, such as Kindle).

- Extend the export tools to support .epub/.azw3 format export
- Contribute to the development of the documentations and other related materials including demos.
- Support GitHub issues and answer StackOverflow questions

## Propose your own!

The best ideas for Google Summer of Code projects are often proposed by students themselves - and we’d love to hear your ideas for improvements to the OI Wiki ecosystem! Feel free to take a look at issues for ideas, and feel free to reach out if you have any questions.

